Chapter 1: Detective

My name is Arden Whitmore, and if you're reading this then I am already dead.

My death will not be judged a murder.

But it is.

By the time you read this people around me will already be pretending to grieve.

One of them is lying.

I leave the truth to you.

-Mr. Whitmore

Sirius read it twice.

He read it a third time.

Somewhere on the desk his Walkman crackled softly, the cassette warbling through worn headphones.

He set the letter down and leaned back. Arden Whitmore.

Of all names.

The man was impossible to avoid. Every bookshop window in the country seemed to have his face plastered somewhere inside it. Interviews. Awards. New releases. Wealth rankings.

If someone had asked Sirius yesterday what Arden Whitmore's greatest problem was, he would have guessed deciding which wing of his manor to sleep in.

He leaned closer to the page.

The letter was made of cut out letters from newspapers and magazines. The paper a pale yellow of common sort in ledgers. The "A" was distinctly curved, a sharp flick in the bottom before it faded. Probably the Wirshaw Chronicles. The glue hadn't fully dried.

When he pressed a finger against one corner, it shifted slightly.

Recent.

Very recent.

The envelope hadn't gone through the post either.

No folds.

No sorting marks.

Someone had delivered it by hand.

Which meant somebody had either spent their morning creating a remarkably elaborate prank—

—or somebody genuinely expected him to take it seriously.

He'd got used to it by now. Jokes and threats landed same to him after so long. Not that it had stopped bothering him. He doubted it ever would. But Sirius had grown to it, the way someone would come to accept that his vehicle would break down sometimes.

He took the black coffee from the table, the heat mixing with the fog through the broken window. The most famous detective in South [], and yet he couldn't find the teenagers who kept breaking his window. He thought of how different his life would have been if he had been like those kids, carefree and raucous, what if that single night hadn't changed his entire life. He guessed in another life he would have enjoyed breaking some weird loser's windows too.

He stirred his coffee, the dull haze of his apartment blurring as he drank the it, the painkillers hadn't cleared out of his system yet. He winced as his bruise came in contact with the hard armchair. Catching the burglar of 47 Marple street had taken everything he had and quite some more. It was a case from a rich family and warranted a rich sum, because the pearl necklace was a family heirloom. Sirius had taken it up without second thought. That had been a week back.

It was all he could do to last through the case without sleep, have the cogs in his mind running with endless amount of caffeine and adrenaline until last night when they finally caught him. He was barely a kid, a few years younger than Sirius, he'd stolen the necklace to pawn it off in a shop to feed his family for the month. He'd had a disabled father and ailing mother back in home. They had depended on him for everything. And now they had no one.

Sirius had looked at them impassively, as the battle raged inside his heart. The law said the boy had to go to jail. The law said he had to be fined and jailed for his misconduct. The officer thanked for his help profusely. They couldn't have caught this juvenile without his help he said, pumping his hand like a piston. Sirius hadn't said anything looking at the father who was sobbing in the corner, and a mother who was smiling thoughtlessly, her mind adled. All the rush he had felt in the chase dies down. The fire that had been burning in him to find the criminal to right the wrong doused at a minute. Suddenly he had felt so tired he could not walk, could not stand and not even speak. He'd stumbled outside as the boy looked at him, his eyes spitting hate and venom.

He'd ensured the law was upheld. He'd made sure that anyone commiting burglary will think twice. He'd been a stellar detective and did everything he could and caught the thief. Then why the hell did he feel so bad.

Sirius gazed at the envelope on the table with glassy eyes.

Sirius Wolfe was not strong. He was not fast. He could not run up the flight of stairs without heaving for breath at the end. He could not understand people, the emotions they portray always too complex, constantly changing to comprehend. He could not hang out with people or go on a date without pushing them away in a day.

But what he had was his mind. A thousand thoughts, a million possibilities racing through his mind, forming connections and unravelling them as fast as they made them. He may not be able to understand why people did what they did, but he could tell *what* they will do. And Sirius knew it.
He might not be as fast, strong or socially capable as everyone. But with his mind anything was possible. He would always be ahead of the curve.

A girl had once said that it would never make him happy. A mind without a heart to feel was bound to misery. He had laughed at her then, not even deigning the give an answer. What did she know about him? Of a mind that refused to be quiet? But now Sirius was not so sure.

Today he was going to take a rest, reading Dosteovsky huddled in his couch or flipping through his journals. Sooner or later he knew he had to visit the family. Ensure the family was taken care of, or lend them some money on his own. He almost laughed at that. He could barely make his ends meet, and any money he could save up had to go to Karla. He closed his eyes the warmth of the coffee and music soothing him. He knew his conscience would not rest until he met the family, but for now he forgot everything. Everything could just ... wait.

The world could move on for a day without Sirius Wolfe.

The phone rang.

It too six rings before Sirius ambled over and picked it up. "Hello, This is private detective Sirius Wolfe."

"Sirius it is Pip." Sirius sighed as he laid down his coffee. Pip was one of the boys who served tea at the station. He paid them to form his own network of local intelligence, tidbits of cases that came by before the police themself took it.

"Sirius you won't believe what's going on 'ere. Why I was just roaming around with Penny when I saw a few constables drive past me. Almost took of Penny's head he did, that great brute, Jakob. Well, sure say we were wondering what got them up in a jiffy like that, so naturally we went out to do a bit of Espy--- espy no -- espy knowledge."

"Espionage?" Sirius asked.

"Yes! Espionage! Me and Penny learnt it off the the book we knicked from fat Frodo as we accidently knocked him down on his way to school and helped him back up. He was thanking us so much he hardly felt Penny nip down to take out the note." Pip seemed to find this the height of hilarity and Sirius waited calmly as the cackling calmed down. He often times wondered whether he was biting more than he can chew with this little rogues. There was a whisper and a shush from the other side, Sirius guessed it was Penny. "Err ... yeah Sirius well, we were doing well you know what we came upon the Inspector's office. In right a fit of mad he was. He was flying at anyone and everyone like a rabid dog. Well he had a right reason to. See there was a suicide down here."

"A what" Sirius stiffened, his mind immediately alert.

"A death. They say it is suicide." Pip said in confidential tones, "some fellow named Whitmore. Penny says he is a writer. But I don't know I haven't right hea-"

"When was it." Sirius was already moving, his hands reaching out for the letter again.

"This morning I think or last night I dunno. The police got the information right now anyway."

"Ohh. Alryt thanks for the lead. By-"

"Sirus, Sirius! You told you'd buy us a new pair of clothes the next time we inform you. I quite like a batman shirt we saw displayed on the Maris' donwtown and Penny-"

"I'll buy you all you want when I'm free Pip. Now let me be. Once I comeback, I promise." That seemed to satisfy Pip who thanked him and suddenly remembering his manners added a couple of sirs at the end before hanging the phone.

He looked at the letter again, the morning daze wiped off in an instant. The ink seemed to change colour before his eyes, seeping blood.

It had not been a prank letter.

It had been a murder prophecy.

Arden Whitmore was dead.

The only proof of it not being a natural death was in his hands.

He got up fetching his long coat. He dealt with murders before. Rich men in silk, and poor in rags, men and women alike, death had come for them all the same. And Sirius had come after.

Murder had long since left him uncomfortable, death just another event in his life, a complication to make sense of, a knot to untangle. Sirius Wolfe had made a life around it, death, sorrow, treachery and greed all entrenched so deep around him he didn't know when one ended and when another began.

But something about this struck him cold. The letter trembled in his hands. Someone who knew about the murder was in his house this morning. His footsteps darkening the foir just as Sirius had slept obliviously inside.

Either someone had seen something odd that scared them enough to approach a detective miles apart with an anonymous letter.

Or the some lunatic killer had written it as a challenge. Or bait. He still couldn't decide which was worse.

He walked over to wear his contacts, trying not to feel the threadbare heel scraping along the floor. He was tired, sleepy, and worn to the bone. He wanted nothing more than to just sink in his bed and not wake till the next day.

But there were few things Sirius had been offered in his life and respite was not one of them.

Besides he had a murder to answer.
